# System-Overview
Excel Fencing is your at-home, personalized, interactive fencing training assistant. Strike the targets as they flash red to turn them green and score points as you hone your fencing skills. Whether you are a beginner or an expert athlete, Excel Fencing has something for you. Through a combination of a mobile iOS application, a life-size, interactive target board, and applied data analytics methods, Excel Fencing can help you train on the fly from the comfort of your own home. You can practice your aim, fine tune your form, improve your precision, and increase your endurance whenever you wish. While doing so, the app tracks user progress in their personal account and gives feedback. It is a fencer’s personal, at-home, customized training assistant.

Excel Fencing interactive Target Boards are roughly 2’ by 3’ and consist of an array of several padded targets. To practice, users fence against the targets as they flash red, one at a time. When a user hits a flashing target in time, it turns green. The goal is to hit all red targets in time, one by one, as they light red. A user’s score is the score he or she gets during the round before its duration is over. If the user wishes to increase the difficulty, he or she can shorten the time each target will stay red for before switching to a different one, making them harder to hit in time. 

To get started, the user must have the complete Excel Fencing system, which consists of two elements: the Excel Fencing interactive Target Board and the Excel Fencing mobile iOS application. The Fencing Board can be easily mounted to a wall or a test dummy. It is lightweight and can be attached via the included straps and suction cups, as long as users make sure it is attached to a fixed surface. Thorough attachment procedures are outlined further in the Excel Fencing Readme. Then, in the iOS application, users can simply connect their target board to the app through WiFi. Then they can trigger a variety of exercises via commands in the app. To start a fencing round, a user must enter the duration of his or her desired round in seconds, and also enter the time duration of each target flash, also in seconds. Once these have been entered, the user can start the round and fence away. When finished, the app not only displays the user’s current score, but it also compares the current score to previous scores in a visual presentation. The app employs data analytics to keep track of user performance and can assist users in finding their weak spots.

Users can delete their performance history, as well as all personal information, in the application whenever they want. For more information regarding privacy, and user terms of use, please see the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy pages in the mobile application. 

Happy fencing!
